
Set up Simulator agents

The Simulator agent hosts simulations that you can run in your local environment on any machine. These simulations send messages, receive requests, or respond like real services.

Use the Simulator agent interface to create, edit, and organize your simulations, or connect your agent to Tosca Cloud.
Before you start

    Simulator agents are copyable files, so you don’t have to install anything specific for it.

    The machines on which you run your Simulator agents must meet the minimum system requirements.

Set up your Simulator agent

You can set up your Simulator agent through the setup wizard during the download process. If you are a Tosca Cloud administrator, you can also set it up through the appsettings.yml file.

You only need to do this once. When you restart a registered Simulator agent, it automatically connects to Tosca Cloud.
OpenI want to use the setup wizard

Choose this option if you haven't yet downloaded a Simulator agent. The wizard starts automatically during the download process:

    Open Downloads from the top menu.

    Download the Simulator agent for your operating system. This starts a setup dialog during the download process.

    Download the Simulator agent.

    Copy the link with your tenant and workspace connection details from the dialog to the clipboard and close the dialog.

    Double-click the executable file that you've downloaded.

    In the next dialog, you have the following options:

        Select Connect Simulator agent if you want to organize your simulations with Tosca Cloud.

        To use the local Simulator agent interface, select the link. The Simulator agent opens and you can start exploring right away. You don't need to do the next step.

    Simulator agent welcome screen.

    Paste the link you copied to the clipboard, and follow the on-screen instructions.

    Your Simulator agent is now active and listed on the Simulator agents page.

OpenI want to use the appsettings file

As an administrator, and if you have already downloaded a Simulator agent, you can connect it to Tosca Cloud using the Simulator agent details dialog and the appsettings.yml file:

    Go to API simulation > Simulator agent and select Get agent details.

    In the default installation folder %LOCALAPPDATA%\Tricentis\Simulation, open the appsettings.yml file.

    In the Simulator agent details dialog, copy the values Tenant, Workspace, and Client secret, then paste them into the respective entries in the appsettings.yml file.

    Alternatively, you can use the API to get the client secret and store it in a file.

    Close the Simulator agent details dialog.

    Save and close the appsettings.yml file.

    Your Simulator agent is now active and listed on the Simulator agents page.

Simulator agent files and directories

The default location for Simulator agent files is %LOCALAPPDATA%\Tricentis\Simulation. It includes the following folders and files:

Folder or file

Description

Log

Storage for your Simulator agent log files.

Workspace

Store your simulation files in this folder. Create folders to organize them. When you start the Simulator agent, it loads all simulation files that are in this folder.

Note: you can only reference files in the same workspace folder in a simulation file.

appsettings.yml

This is the Simulator agent configuration file. You can use this file to integrate the Simulator agent to Tosca Cloud.
Start the Simulator agent

To start the Simulator agent, double-click the Tricentis.Simulator.Agent.exe file that you've downloaded.

When the Simulator agent is set up, the console window opens and shows all logs. It's now connected to Tosca Cloud. The Simulator agents user interface also opens in a new tab.
What's next

Deploy simulations to your Simulator agent.

Take a look at the Simulator agents overview page.

If you don't have a simulation yet, create one.

----

Use the Simulator agent interface

You can use the Simulator agent interface in standalone mode to modify or run simulations when the Simulator agent isn't connected to Tosca Cloud. It provides a technical preview of upcoming features for API simulation.

Since this feature is still under development, we cannot guarantee full functionality or usability at this time.
Open the Simulator agent user interface

To open the Simulator agent interface, download and start the Simulator agent.

The Simulator agent user interface.
Modify simulations

To modify a simulation file, follow these steps:

    From the Inventory tab, select the simulation file you want to modify.

    Find out about the elements you can use to modify your simulations.

    Make your changes and click Save.

Check the logs

Select the Log tab in the top menu to view all the processes that the Simulator agent has performed. It lists the following log details:

    Any message sent or received by the Simulator agent.

    What connections were opened or closed.

    The added or modified simulations.

    Any error that occurred.

----

Use the Simulator agent as proxy

With the Simulator agent acting as a proxy, you can intercept and redirect the traffic between a client and a real service. The proxy allows you to parse, filter, or forward requests to a virtual version of the service. This lets you simulate, test, or monitor the service without the real service being available or affected. The proxy also helps isolate different test environments and provides flexible control over traffic flow. For example, you can use a proxy to simulate parts of your website when you don't want to use real data.
Start theSimulator agent as a proxy

To make the Simulator agent run as a proxy, follow these steps:

    Start the Simulator agent to open its interface.

    Go to Settings > Proxy.

    Select Start. The proxy port is set automatically.

Stop proxy

To stop using the Simulator agent as a proxy, go to Settings > Proxy in the Simulator agent interface and select Stop. Alternatively, simply close the Simulator agent.
